>>> I WAS LOOKING AT SOME OF
>>> I WAS LOOKING AT SOME OF THOSE BIG ONCE INCREDIBLE
THOSE BIG ONCE INCREDIBLE JOB-PRODUCING FACTORIES.
JOB-PRODUCING FACTORIES. MY WIFE MELANIA SAID, WHAT
MY WIFE MELANIA SAID, WHAT HAPPENED?
HAPPENED? I SAID THOSE JOBS HAVE LEFT
I SAID THOSE JOBS HAVE LEFT OHIO.
OHIO. THEY’RE ALL COMING BACK.
THEY’RE ALL COMING BACK. THEY’RE ALL COMING BACK.
THEY’RE ALL COMING BACK. COMING BACK.
COMING BACK. DON’T MOVE.
DON’T MOVE. DON’T SELL YOUR HOUSE.
DON’T SELL YOUR HOUSE. >>> DON’T MOVE.
>>> DON’T MOVE. DON’T SELL YOUR HOUSE.
DON’T SELL YOUR HOUSE. DONALD TRUMP MADE A LOT OF BIG
DONALD TRUMP MADE A LOT OF BIG PROMISES TO AMERICAN WORKERS, AS
PROMISES TO AMERICAN WORKERS, AS YOU JUST SAW IN 2017.
YOU JUST SAW IN 2017. THIS WEEK THE LIVELIHOODS OFMANY
THIS WEEK THE LIVELIHOODS OFMANY WORKERS WHEN THE PLANT CLOSED.
WORKERS WHEN THE PLANT CLOSED. IT’S A HUGE BLOW TO LORDSTOWN.
IT’S A HUGE BLOW TO LORDSTOWN. IT WILL ELIMINATE NEARLY 1700
IT WILL ELIMINATE NEARLY 1700 HOURLY JOBS.
HOURLY JOBS. HEATHER, WELCOME TO THE SHOW.
HEATHER, WELCOME TO THE SHOW. I’VE BEEN WANTING TO TALK TO YOU
I’VE BEEN WANTING TO TALK TO YOU FOR A LONG TIME.
FOR A LONG TIME. YOU THINK ABOUT THE PLANT THAT’S
YOU THINK ABOUT THE PLANT THAT’S CLOSING, BUT CAN YOU TALK MORE
CLOSING, BUT CAN YOU TALK MORE ABOUT WHAT THAT DOES TO THE
ABOUT WHAT THAT DOES TO THE TOWN?
TOWN? >> ABSOLUTELY.
>> ABSOLUTELY. THE ENTIRE COMMUNITY RELIES ON
THE ENTIRE COMMUNITY RELIES ON THOSE JOBS?
THOSE JOBS? IT’S THE SUPPLIERS, THE OTHER --
IT’S THE SUPPLIERS, THE OTHER -- THE OTHER COMPANIES THAT ARE
THE OTHER COMPANIES THAT ARE SUPPLYING THE PARTS FOR THE
SUPPLYING THE PARTS FOR THE CRUZE, BUT ALSO THE WAITERS AND
CRUZE, BUT ALSO THE WAITERS AND WAITRESSES AT THE RESTAURANTS
WAITRESSES AT THE RESTAURANTS WHERE PEOPLE TAKE THEIR DRINKS
WHERE PEOPLE TAKE THEIR DRINKS AND MEALS AFTER THE SHIFTS.
AND MEALS AFTER THE SHIFTS. IT’S THE SCHOOLS THAT WILL SEE
IT’S THE SCHOOLS THAT WILL SEE THE DROP IN TAX MONEY.
THE DROP IN TAX MONEY. I THINK IT’S AN IMPORTANT POINT
I THINK IT’S AN IMPORTANT POINT THAT THIS DIDN’T HAVE TO HAPPEN.
THAT THIS DIDN’T HAVE TO HAPPEN. WE DIDN’T HAVE TO HAVE
WE DIDN’T HAVE TO HAVE MANUFACTURING HOLLOW OUT IN THIS
MANUFACTURING HOLLOW OUT IN THIS COUNTRY.
COUNTRY. WE DIDN’T HAVE TO HAVE WHAT
WE DIDN’T HAVE TO HAVE WHAT DONALD TRUMP SAID BE A LIE.
DONALD TRUMP SAID BE A LIE. THERE WERE POLICIES FROM THE TAX
THERE WERE POLICIES FROM THE TAX CUTS WHICH SHOWED THAT GM COULD
CUTS WHICH SHOWED THAT GM COULD POCKET MORE MONEY WITHOUT
POCKET MORE MONEY WITHOUT INNOVATING AND BUILDING, TO THE
INNOVATING AND BUILDING, TO THE FACT THAT THE CHEVY CRUZE WAS A
FACT THAT THE CHEVY CRUZE WAS A FUEL-EFFICIENT CART, WHICH -- TO
FUEL-EFFICIENT CART, WHICH -- TO MAKE SURE THAT WE AREN’T
MAKE SURE THAT WE AREN’T POLLUTING OURSELVES TO DEATH.
POLLUTING OURSELVES TO DEATH. IF THOSE WERE STILL IN PLACE,
IF THOSE WERE STILL IN PLACE, INSTEAD OF THE PRESIDENT -- THE
INSTEAD OF THE PRESIDENT -- THE CRUZE WOULD STILL BE A
CRUZE WOULD STILL BE A COMPETITIVE CAR.
COMPETITIVE CAR. NAFTA, HE SAID WHAT HE WAS GOING
NAFTA, HE SAID WHAT HE WAS GOING TO DO.
TO DO. WHY IS IT THAT THIS PLANT IS
WHY IS IT THAT THIS PLANT IS STILL GOING TO MOVE TO MEXICO?
STILL GOING TO MOVE TO MEXICO? >> AFTER HE SUPPOSEDLY
>> AFTER HE SUPPOSEDLY RENEGOTIATED IT.
RENEGOTIATED IT. >> EXACTLY.
>> EXACTLY. >> SARAH, THERE’S A QUESTION OF
>> SARAH, THERE’S A QUESTION OF WHETHER OR NOT IT’S EVEN
WHETHER OR NOT IT’S EVEN REALISTIC FOR MY POLITICIAN TO
REALISTIC FOR MY POLITICIAN TO PROMISE TO SAVE MANUFACTURING
PROMISE TO SAVE MANUFACTURING JOBS IN A GLOBAL ECONOMY WHEN
JOBS IN A GLOBAL ECONOMY WHEN IT’S JUST NOT REALISTIC, OR
IT’S JUST NOT REALISTIC, OR IMMIGRANTS ARE THE PROBLEM
IMMIGRANTS ARE THE PROBLEM RATHER THAN AUTOMATION, BUT I
RATHER THAN AUTOMATION, BUT I WONDER THE WAY THE THE JOBS HAVE
WONDER THE WAY THE THE JOBS HAVE BEEN SAVED BEFORE, AND THEY GAVE
BEEN SAVED BEFORE, AND THEY GAVE THE AUTO INDUSTRY A LOT OF MONEY
THE AUTO INDUSTRY A LOT OF MONEY TO SAVE THEM.
TO SAVE THEM. YOU HAVE REPUBLICAN GOVERNORING
YOU HAVE REPUBLICAN GOVERNORING SAYING WE’RE GOING TO SAVE THE
SAYING WE’RE GOING TO SAVE THE COAL INDUSTRY, WHEN IT’S DIES.
COAL INDUSTRY, WHEN IT’S DIES. WHY IS THAT NOT THE ANSWER HERE?
WHY IS THAT NOT THE ANSWER HERE? >> I THINK HE DOESN’T CARE.
>> I THINK HE DOESN’T CARE. TRUMP DOESN’T CARE.
TRUMP DOESN’T CARE. HE SHOULDN’T HAVE MADE THOSE
HE SHOULDN’T HAVE MADE THOSE PROMISES.
PROMISES. HE DOESN’T SEE PEOPLE AS
HE DOESN’T SEE PEOPLE AS WORKERS, HE SEES THEM AS PROPS,
WORKERS, HE SEES THEM AS PROPS, AND THE SAME SEEMS TO BE TRUE
AND THE SAME SEEMS TO BE TRUE ABOUT GENERAL MOTORS THEY
ABOUT GENERAL MOTORS THEY WORKERS HAVE GIVEN UP THEIR
WORKERS HAVE GIVEN UP THEIR LIVES FOR THIS COMPANY.
LIVES FOR THIS COMPANY. LORDSTOWN IS A SMALL PLACE THAT
LORDSTOWN IS A SMALL PLACE THAT RELIES ON THESE ECONOMIC
RELIES ON THESE ECONOMIC INCENTIVES.
INCENTIVES. THIS IS A LONG-TERM PROBLEM,
THIS IS A LONG-TERM PROBLEM, SOMETHING YOU SEE GOING BACK TO
SOMETHING YOU SEE GOING BACK TO THE REAGAN ERA, THE DECENT MACE
THE REAGAN ERA, THE DECENT MACE OF UNIONS, BUT WHAT WE SEE NOW
OF UNIONS, BUT WHAT WE SEE NOW IS AN OPENLY PREDATORY NATURE
IS AN OPENLY PREDATORY NATURE THAT WE HAVEN’T BEFORE.
THAT WE HAVEN’T BEFORE. WE SEE TRUMP AND HIS COHORT
WE SEE TRUMP AND HIS COHORT TAKING THE COUNTRY APART,
TAKING THE COUNTRY APART, SELLING IT FOR PARTS, WITHOUT
SELLING IT FOR PARTS, WITHOUT ANY KIND OF THOUGHT AS TO, YOU
ANY KIND OF THOUGHT AS TO, YOU KNOW, THE DEVASTATION THAT
KNOW, THE DEVASTATION THAT THEY’RE INCURRING.
THEY’RE INCURRING. THEY PREY ON PEOPLE’S PAIN LIKE
THEY PREY ON PEOPLE’S PAIN LIKE A VULTURE.
A VULTURE. UNFORTUNATELY I DON’T SEE THAT
UNFORTUNATELY I DON’T SEE THAT CHANGING ANY TIME SOON.
CHANGING ANY TIME SOON. >> LET’S HAVE THE AUDIENCE HEAR
>> LET’S HAVE THE AUDIENCE HEAR FROM A COUPLE ASSEMBLY PLANT
FROM A COUPLE ASSEMBLY PLANT WORKERS.
WORKERS. THIS IS A GENTLEMAN NAMED DAVID
THIS IS A GENTLEMAN NAMED DAVID GREEN.
GREEN. HE’S TALKING ABOUT WHAT LOSING
HE’S TALKING ABOUT WHAT LOSING THIS PLANT WILL DO TO THE
THIS PLANT WILL DO TO THE COMMUNITY.
COMMUNITY. >> THE VILLAGE OF LORDSTOWN
>> THE VILLAGE OF LORDSTOWN ITSELF, OBVIOUSLY, WILL BE IN
ITSELF, OBVIOUSLY, WILL BE IN TROUBLE.
TROUBLE. THIS WHOLE VALLEY THAT IS RELIED
THIS WHOLE VALLEY THAT IS RELIED ON GENERAL MOTORS.
ON GENERAL MOTORS. IT’S KIND OF THE BACKBONE.
IT’S KIND OF THE BACKBONE. IABLY THEY’VE HAVE AN ABLE TO
IABLY THEY’VE HAVE AN ABLE TO LAND SOME PRODUCT FOR OUR
LAND SOME PRODUCT FOR OUR WORKERS, FOR OUR FAMILIES, FOR
WORKERS, FOR OUR FAMILIES, FOR THIS COMMUNITY.
THIS COMMUNITY. I MEAN, THE ALTERNATIVE JUST
I MEAN, THE ALTERNATIVE JUST ISN’T GOING TO BE GOOD.
ISN’T GOING TO BE GOOD. THE ALTERNATIVE IS NO WORK COMES
THE ALTERNATIVE IS NO WORK COMES HERE, AND EVERYBODY HAS TO
HERE, AND EVERYBODY HAS TO LEAVE.
LEAVE. >> I MEAN, YOU KNOW, HEATHER
>> I MEAN, YOU KNOW, HEATHER WE’RE TALKING 1700 HOURLY JOBS,
WE’RE TALKING 1700 HOURLY JOBS, BUT 3,000 UNION JOBS LAST IN
BUT 3,000 UNION JOBS LAST IN 2017.
2017. I KNOW ON THE CAMPAIGN WE TOOK
I KNOW ON THE CAMPAIGN WE TOOK OUR SHOT TO OHIO AND
OUR SHOT TO OHIO AND PENNSYLVANIA, AND TALKED TO
PENNSYLVANIA, AND TALKED TO STEEL WORKERS WHO SAID ALL WE
STEEL WORKERS WHO SAID ALL WE HAVE IN OUR COMMUNITY NOW IS
HAVE IN OUR COMMUNITY NOW IS DOLLAR STORES.
DOLLAR STORES. THE PULL OF CHEAP OVERSEAS LABOR
THE PULL OF CHEAP OVERSEAS LABOR IS REAL.
IS REAL. >> THERE IS AN ANSWER, AND ONE
>> THERE IS AN ANSWER, AND ONE IS THE GREEN NEW DEAL.
IS THE GREEN NEW DEAL. THIS IS THE PERFECT EXAMPLE OF
THIS IS THE PERFECT EXAMPLE OF WHERE WE NEED INDUSTRIAL POLICY.
WHERE WE NEED INDUSTRIAL POLICY. THAT’S WHAT THE GREEN NEW DEAL
THAT’S WHAT THE GREEN NEW DEAL IS.
IS. IT’S SAYS WE HAVE A GOAL.
IT’S SAYS WE HAVE A GOAL. WE WANT TO REDUCE CLIMATE
WE WANT TO REDUCE CLIMATE EMISSIONS, AND MAKE SURE --
EMISSIONS, AND MAKE SURE -- >> WHAT DOES THAT MEAN EXACTLY?
>> WHAT DOES THAT MEAN EXACTLY? WHAT WOULD IT DO FOR THIS
WHAT WOULD IT DO FOR THIS SPECIFIC INDUSTRY?
SPECIFIC INDUSTRY? >> WE SHOULD BE, AS WE INVENTED
>> WE SHOULD BE, AS WE INVENTED THE ELECTRIC CAR IN THIS
THE ELECTRIC CAR IN THIS COUNTRY, WE SHOULD BE THE WORLD
COUNTRY, WE SHOULD BE THE WORLD LEADER IN MANUFACTURING ELECTRIC
LEADER IN MANUFACTURING ELECTRIC CARS.
CARS. TESS HA HAS SHOWN TRYING TO DO
TESS HA HAS SHOWN TRYING TO DO IT YOW I’VE OF THE MIDWEST BASE
IT YOW I’VE OF THE MIDWEST BASE IS VERY, VERY DIFFICULT.
IS VERY, VERY DIFFICULT. THIS ACTUAL PLANT SHOULD BE THE
THIS ACTUAL PLANT SHOULD BE THE HUB OF THE NEW NOT ONLY THE
HUB OF THE NEW NOT ONLY THE CARS, BUT THE NEW HIGH-SPEED
CARS, BUT THE NEW HIGH-SPEED RAIL.
RAIL. THE THINGS THAT ARE MADE TO
THE THINGS THAT ARE MADE TO MAKES SURE WE HAVE FUEL
MAKES SURE WE HAVE FUEL EFFICIENCY, THAT WE ARE NOT
EFFICIENCY, THAT WE ARE NOT POLLUTING OURSELVES INTO AN
POLLUTING OURSELVES INTO AN UNINHABITABLE EARTH.
UNINHABITABLE EARTH. THERE’S NO REASON WHY THE MASS
THERE’S NO REASON WHY THE MASS TRANSIT THAT NEEDS TO BE
TRANSIT THAT NEEDS TO BE INVESTED IN, ALL OF THAT NEEDS
INVESTED IN, ALL OF THAT NEEDS HARD SKILLS, THE CONSTRUCTION
HARD SKILLS, THE CONSTRUCTION DISTILL THAT RIGHT NOW ARE BEING
DISTILL THAT RIGHT NOW ARE BEING LEFT TO ATROPHY.
LEFT TO ATROPHY. I WANT TO MAKE ANOTHER POINT.
I WANT TO MAKE ANOTHER POINT. THIS IS NOT THE CASE OF THE
THIS IS NOT THE CASE OF THE BAILOUTS AS IT WAS IN 2008.
BAILOUTS AS IT WAS IN 2008. GM IS DOING EXTRAORDINARILY
GM IS DOING EXTRAORDINARILY WELL.
WELL. THEY DON’T NEED A BAILOUT RIGHT
THEY DON’T NEED A BAILOUT RIGHT NOW.
NOW. THEY MADE $12 BILLION IN PROFITS
THEY MADE $12 BILLION IN PROFITS LAST YEAR.
LAST YEAR. THEY SPENT $SHALL BILLION BUYING
THEY SPENT $SHALL BILLION BUYING BACK THEIR OWN STOCK, SOMETHING
BACK THEIR OWN STOCK, SOMETHING THAT USED TO BE ILLEGAL AND
THAT USED TO BE ILLEGAL AND SHOULD BE AGAIN.
SHOULD BE AGAIN. THIS IS A CHOICE, TO JUST SAY WE
THIS IS A CHOICE, TO JUST SAY WE WOULD RATHER PAY LOWER WAGES,
WOULD RATHER PAY LOWER WAGES, NONUNION WAGES, AND THAT CHOICE
NONUNION WAGES, AND THAT CHOICE I THINK SHOULD NOT BE SOMETHING
I THINK SHOULD NOT BE SOMETHING THAT POLICY IS PRESSING THEM TO
THAT POLICY IS PRESSING THEM TO BE ABLE TO DO.
BE ABLE TO DO. >>> THIS IS IN LORRAINE, OHIO,
>>> THIS IS IN LORRAINE, OHIO, AND WE TALKED TO THEM BACK IN
AND WE TALKED TO THEM BACK IN 2016.
2016. >> WHEN I GREW UP, I THOUGHT IT
>> WHEN I GREW UP, I THOUGHT IT WAS A PLATE THAT WAS GOING TO BE
WAS A PLATE THAT WAS GOING TO BE THERE FOREVER.
THERE FOREVER. WHEN I PERSONALLY STARTED IN A
WHEN I PERSONALLY STARTED IN A PLANT, WE HAD 8300 PEOPLE
PLANT, WE HAD 8300 PEOPLE WORKING.
WORKING. >> WE WENT FROM MANUFACTURING TO
>> WE WENT FROM MANUFACTURING TO DOLLAR STORES.
DOLLAR STORES. THAT’S THE JOBS.
THAT’S THE JOBS. DOLLAR STORES.
DOLLAR STORES. >> SARAH, IN THE PLAY WHERE YOU
>> SARAH, IN THE PLAY WHERE YOU LIVE, IS THERE A POSSIBILITY
LIVE, IS THERE A POSSIBILITY THAT PEOPLE COULD JUST BE
THAT PEOPLE COULD JUST BE RETRAINED TO BUILT THE FUTURE,
RETRAINED TO BUILT THE FUTURE, TO BUILD ELECTRIC CARS?
TO BUILD ELECTRIC CARS? TO BUILD HIGH-SPEED RAIL?
TO BUILD HIGH-SPEED RAIL? THAT IS WHAT THE NEW DEAL WAS
THAT IS WHAT THE NEW DEAL WAS THE FIRST TIME MARSHALING
THE FIRST TIME MARSHALING GOVERNMENT RESOURCES TO PUT
GOVERNMENT RESOURCES TO PUT PEOPLE BACK TO WORK IN
PEOPLE BACK TO WORK IN INDUSTRIES THAT’S HELPFUL TO THE
INDUSTRIES THAT’S HELPFUL TO THE COUNTRY?
COUNTRY? IS THERE ANY HOPE?
IS THERE ANY HOPE? >> YES, THERE’S NOT A SKILLS
>> YES, THERE’S NOT A SKILLS GAP.
GAP. THERE’S A MORALITY GAP, A
THERE’S A MORALITY GAP, A REFUSAL TO OFFER ON THE JOB
REFUSAL TO OFFER ON THE JOB TRAINING.
TRAINING. THERE’S INSISTENCE THAT PEOPLE
THERE’S INSISTENCE THAT PEOPLE GET EXPENSIVE DEGREES FOR JOBS
GET EXPENSIVE DEGREES FOR JOBS THAT DON’T REQUIRE THEM.
THAT DON’T REQUIRE THEM. THERE’S NOT A MAGICAL SHIFT IN
THERE’S NOT A MAGICAL SHIFT IN INTELLECT OR ABILITY.
INTELLECT OR ABILITY. IT USED TO BE YOU COULD ENTER
IT USED TO BE YOU COULD ENTER AND WORK YOUR WAY UP AND LEARN
AND WORK YOUR WAY UP AND LEARN SKILLS THERE.
SKILLS THERE. I DON’T SEE WHY THEY CAN’T DO
I DON’T SEE WHY THEY CAN’T DO THAT WITH NEW KINDS OF JOBS,
THAT WITH NEW KINDS OF JOBS, WITH JOBS, RELATED TO THE GREEN
WITH JOBS, RELATED TO THE GREEN NEW DEAL.
NEW DEAL. THAT’S SOMETHING THAT PEOPLE,
THAT’S SOMETHING THAT PEOPLE, YOU KNOW, THEY OWE THESE WORKERS
YOU KNOW, THEY OWE THESE WORKERS THAT.
THAT. IT’S CRUEL, IT’S UNNECESSARY,
IT’S CRUEL, IT’S UNNECESSARY, AND IT CAN BE FIXED IF YOU HAVE
AND IT CAN BE FIXED IF YOU HAVE THE WILL.
THE WILL. >> THANK YOU BOTH.
>> THANK YOU BOTH. I WANT TO TALK THE GREEN NEW
I WANT TO TALK THE GREEN NEW DEAL IN GREATER DETAIL.
DEAL IN GREATER DETAIL. THANK YOU BOTH VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU BOTH VERY MUCH. >>> IN OUR NEXT HOUR, A ONE-HOUR
>>> IN OUR NEXT HOUR, A ONE-HOUR EDITION OF "A.M. JOY" TO ALL THE
EDITION OF "A.M. JOY" TO ALL THE POTENTIAL CRIMES OF ONE DONNELL
POTENTIAL CRIMES OF ONE DONNELL J. TRUMP, SO BREW YOURSELF SOME
J. TRUMP, SO BREW YOURSELF SOME COFFEE AND COME BACK.
COFFEE AND COME BACK. >>> IT’S CLOSE TO 17,000 JOBS
>>> IT’S CLOSE TO 17,000 JOBS THAT ARE ATTACHED TO US.
THAT ARE ATTACHED TO US. MY BROTHER WORKS AT MAG IN A,
MY BROTHER WORKS AT MAG IN A, HE’S LOSING HIS JOB.
HE’S LOSING HIS JOB. EVERYONE THAT HAS ANY SENIORITY
EVERYONE THAT HAS ANY SENIORITY WITHIN THE PLANT HAVE TO MAKE
WITHIN THE PLANT HAVE TO MAKE THE TOUGHEST DECISION OF THEIR
THE TOUGHEST DECISION OF THEIR LIFE -- DO THEY TRANSFER, WHICH
LIFE -- DO THEY TRANSFER, WHICH WE HAVE THE RIGHT TO TRANSFER,
WE HAVE THE RIGHT TO TRANSFER, WHICH IS GREAT, AND DO THEY
WHICH IS GREAT, AND DO THEY LEAVE THEIR FAMILY BEHIND?
LEAVE THEIR FAMILY BEHIND? OR DO THEY PULL EVERYBODY OUT OF
OR DO THEY PULL EVERYBODY OUT OF SCHOOL, LITTLE KIDS, AND START
SCHOOL, LITTLE KIDS, AND START OVER?
OVER? IT’S LITERALLY THE HARDEST